docs/auto_examples/animate.rst, before:



.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_animate.py:


=============================
Hyperalign a list of arrays and create an animated plot
=============================

The sample data is a list of 2D arrays, where each array is fMRI brain activity
from one subject.  The rows are timepoints and the columns are neural
'features'.  First, the matrices are hyperaligned using hyp.tools.align.



.. code-block:: python


    # Code source: Andrew Heusser
    # License: MIT

    # import
    import hypertools as hyp
    import numpy as np

    # load example data
    data = hyp.load('weights', align=True)

    # average into two groups
    w1 = np.mean(data[:17],0)
    w2 = np.mean(data[18:],0)

    # plot
    hyp.plot([w1, w2], animate=True)

**Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)



.. container:: sphx-glr-footer


  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: animate.py <animate.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: animate.ipynb <animate.ipynb>`

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Generated by Sphinx-Gallery <http://sphinx-gallery.readthedocs.io>`_

Commit message:

added docstring, tests and updated code in other functions to do ppca by default (set to False in format_data function by default). advanced version to 0.4.1

docs/auto_examples/animate.rst, after:



.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_animate.py:


=============================
Hyperalign a list of arrays and create an animated plot
=============================

The sample data is a list of 2D arrays, where each array is fMRI brain activity
from one subject.  The rows are timepoints and the columns are neural
'features'.  First, the matrices are hyperaligned using hyp.align.  Then, the data
are split into 2 groups of 18. and averaged.  Finally the aligned data is plotted.



.. code-block:: python


    # Code source: Andrew Heusser
    # License: MIT

    # import
    import hypertools as hyp
    import numpy as np

    # load example data
    data = hyp.load('weights', align=True)

    # average into two groups
    w1 = np.mean(data[:17],0)
    w2 = np.mean(data[18:],0)

    # plot
    hyp.plot([w1, w2], animate=True)

**Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)



.. container:: sphx-glr-footer


  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: animate.py <animate.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: animate.ipynb <animate.ipynb>`

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Generated by Sphinx-Gallery <http://sphinx-gallery.readthedocs.io>`_
